README.md, before:

# awesome-remote-image-captioning
The project is currently under construction

### Templates
```markdown
Papers
| `标签` | [论文名称](论文地址) <br/>*所有作者*<br/>> 单位<br/>> 所属期刊缩写 年份 | 一句话概括 |引用数 | [[Code]](仓库地址)<br/>[[Page]](主页地址)<br/>[[Demo]](Demo地址) |

Datasets
| [数据集名称](论文地址) <br/>一句话概括<br/>> 单位<br/>> 年份 | 语言 | 图像类别数 | 图像总个数 | 最低图像分辨率 - <br/>最高图像分辨率 |

Popular Implementations
| [仓库名称](仓库地址) | 框架 |

Blogs
| [Blog标题](Blog地址) | 作者 | 一句话概括 |
```

### Papers
| Tag | Paper info | Description | Citations | Useful links |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `Contextual attention`, `NWPU-Captions`| [NWPU-Captions Dataset and MLCA-Net for Remote Sensing Image Captioning](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9866055/keywords)<br/>*Qimin Cheng; Haiyan Huang; Yuan Xu; Yuzhuo Zhou; Huanying Li; Zhongyuan Wang*<br/>> Huazhong University of Science and Technology<br/>> TGRS 2022 | The paper propose a novel encoder–decoder architecture — multilevel and contextual attention network (MLCA-Net), which improves the flexibility and diversity of the generated captions while keeping their accuracy and conciseness.<br/> | 4 | None |
| `Change captioning (CC)`, `change detection (CD)`, `Transformer` | [Remote Sensing Image Change Captioning With Dual-Branch Transformers: A New Method and a Large Scale Dataset](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9934924/keywords#full-text-header)<br/>*Chenyang Liu; Rui Zhao; Hao Chen; Zhengxia Zou; Zhenwei Shi*<br/>> Beihang University<br/>> TGRS 2022 | The paper proposes a novel Transformer-based RSICC (RSICCformer) model, which consists of a CNN-based feature extractor, a dual-branch Transformer encoder (DTE) and a caption decoder.<br/> | 3 | None |
| `joint training`, `multilabel attributes` | [A Joint-Training Two-Stage Method For Remote Sensing Image Captioning](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9961235/keywords#full-text-header) <br/>*Xiutiao Ye; Shuang Wang; Yu Gu; Jihui Wang; Ruixuan Wang; Biao Hou; Fausto Giunchiglia; Licheng Jiao*<br/>> Xidian University<br/>> TGRS 2022 | A novel joint-training two-stage (JTTS) method improves remote sensing image captioning by integrating multilabel classification for prior information, utilizing differentiable sampling, and employing an attribute-guided decoder.<br/> | 2 | None |
| `Attention mechanism` | [Global Visual Feature and Linguistic State Guided Attention for Remote Sensing Image Captioning](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9632558/) <br/>*Zhengyuan Zhang;Wenkai Zhang;Menglong Yan;Xin Gao;Kun Fu;Xian Sun*<br/>> Chinese Academy of Sciences<br/>> TGRS 2022 | This article proposes a global visual feature-guided attention mechanism for remote-sensing image captioning, which introduces global visual features, filters out redundant components.<br/> | 9 | None |
| `change detection (CD)`, `support vector machines (SVMs)` | [Change Captioning: A New Paradigm for Multitemporal Remote Sensing Image Analysis](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9847254) <br/>*Genc Hoxha;Seloua Chouaf;Farid Melgani;Youcef Smara*<br/>> University of Trento<br/>> TGRS 2022 | This article proposes change captioning systems that generate coherent sentence descriptions of occurred changes in remote sensing, which utilize convolutional neural networks to extract features and recurrent neural networks or support vector machines to generate change descriptions.<br/> | 3 | None |
| `Attention mechanism`, `encoder-decoder` | [Recurrent Attention and Semantic Gate for Remote Sensing Image Captioning](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9515452) <br/>*Yunpeng Li;Xiangrong Zhang;Jing Gu;Chen Li;Xin Wang;Xu Tang;Licheng Jiao*<br/>> Xidian University<br/>> TGRS 2022 | This article introduces a novel RASG framework for remote sensing image captioning, and it utilizes competitive visual features and a recurrent attention mechanism to generate improved context vectors and enhance word representations.<br/> | 14 | None |
| `structured attention` | [High-Resolution Remote Sensing Image Captioning Based on Structured Attention](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9400386/keywords#keywords) <br/>*Rui Zhao;Zhenwei Shi;Zhengxia Zou*<br/>> Beihang University, Beijing<br/>> TGRS 2022 | A fine-grained, structured attention-based method is proposed for generating language descriptions of high-resolution remote sensing images, utilizes the structural characteristics of semantic contents and can generate pixelwise segmentation masks without requiring pixelwise annotations.<br/> | 35 | None |
| `support vector machines (SVMs)` | [A Novel SVM-Based Decoder for Remote Sensing Image Captioning](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9521989/) <br/>*Genc Hoxha;Farid Melgani*<br/>> University of Trento<br/>> TGRS 2022 | This article introduces a novel remote sensing image captioning system by using a network of support vector machines (SVMs) instead of recurrent neural networks (RNNs).<br/> | 20 | None |
| `Meta learning` | [Meta captioning: A meta learning based remote sensing image captioning framework](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0924271622000351) <br/>*Qiaoqiao;YangZihao;NiPeng Ren*<br/>> China University of Petroleum (East China)<br/>> ISPRS 2022 | The paper presents a meta captioning framework that utilizes meta learning to address the limitations of remote sensing image captioning, transferring meta features extracted from natural image classification and remote sensing image classification tasks to improve captioning performance with a relatively small amount of caption-labeled training data.| 8 | [[Code]](https://github.com/QiaoqiaoYang/MetaCaptioning) |
| `Spatial and channel-wise visual attention`, `Transformer`, `Memory guided decoder` | [Generating the captions for remote sensing images: A spatial-channel attention based memory-guided transformer approach](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197622002317) <br/>*Gaurav O. Gajbhiye;Abhijeet V. Nandedkar*<br/>> SGGS Institute of Engineering and Technology<br/>> ISPRS 2022 | A novel fully-attentive CNN-Transformer approach is proposed for automatic caption generation in remote sensing images, integrating a multi-attentive visual encoder and a memory-guided Transformer-based linguistic decoder, with a statistical index to measure the model's ability to generate reliable captions across datasets. | 4 | [[Code]](https://github.com/GauravGajbhiye/SCAMET_RSIC) |
| `overfitting`, `truncation cross entropy (TCE) loss` | [Truncation Cross Entropy Loss for Remote Sensing Image Captioning](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9153154/keywords#keywords) <br/>*Xuelong Li;Xueting Zhang;Wei Huang;Qi Wang*<br/>> Northwestern Polytechnical University<br/>> TGRS 2021 | This article introduces a new approach called truncation cross entropy (TCE) loss to address the overfitting problem in remote sensing image captioning (RSIC), which explores the limitations of cross entropy (CE) loss and proposes TCE loss to alleviate overfitting.<br/> | 38 | None |
| `Caption summarization` | [SD-RSIC: Summarization-Driven Deep Remote Sensing Image Captioning](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9239371) <br/>*Gencer Sumbul;Sonali Nayak;Begüm Demir*<br/>> Technische Universität Berlin<br/>> TGRS 2021 | The novel SD-RSIC approach addresses the issue of redundant information in remote sensing image captioning, which utilizes summarization techniques, adaptive weighting, and a combination of CNNs and LSTM networks to improve the mapping from the image domain to the language domain.<br/> | 35 | [[Code]](https://gitlab.tubit.tu-berlin.de/rsim/SD-RSIC) |
| `word–sentence framework` | [Word–Sentence Framework for Remote Sensing Image Captioning](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9308980/keywords#keywords) <br/>*Qi Wang;Wei Huang;Xueting Zhang;Xuelong Li*<br/>> Northwestern Polytechnical University<br/>> TRGS 2021 | This article introduces a new explainable word-sentence framework for remote sensing image captioning (RSIC), consisting of a word extractor and a sentence generator.<br/> | 42 | None |
| `Multi-label classification`, `Cross-modal feature fusion` | [Multi-label semantic feature fusion for remote sensing image captioning](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S092427162100318X) <br/>*Shuang Wang;Xiutiao Ye;Yu Gu;Jihui Wang;Yun Meng;Jingxian Tian;Biao Hou;Licheng Jiao*<br/>> Xidian University<br/>> ISPRS 2021 | The paper introduces a multi-label semantic feature fusion (MLSFF) framework for two-stage remote sensing image (RSI) captioning, which utilizes multi-label classification to improve the description of complex RSIs and proposes cross-modal fusion operators to enhance feature representations, achieving state-of-the-art performance on multiple datasets.| 6 | [[Code]](https://github.com/xtye5025/MLSFF) |
| `Multi-level attention`, `Graph convolutional networks` | [Exploring Multi-Level Attention and Semantic Relationship for Remote Sensing Image Captioning](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8943170)<br/>*Zhenghang Yuan; Xuelong Li; Qi Wang*<br/>> Northwestern Polytechnical University<br/>> IEEE Access 2019 | This paper proposes a remote sensing image captioning framework based on multi-level attention and multi-label attribute graph convolution is proposed to improve the performance from two aspects. | 29 | None |
| `Intensive positioning network (IPN)` | [Intensive Positioning Network for Remote Sensing Image Captioning](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-02698-1_49)<br/>*Shengsheng Wang; Jiawei Chen; Guagnyao Wang*<br/>> Jilin University<br/>> Intelligence Science and Big Data Engineering 2018 | The paper proposes a new network: intensive positioning network (IPN) , which can predict regions containing important information in the picture and output multiple region description blocks around these regions. | 6 | None | 
| `RSICD` | [Exploring Models and Data for Remote Sensing Image Caption Generation ](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8240966)<br/>*Xiaoqiang Lu; Binqiang Wang; Xiangtao Zheng; Xuelong Li*<br/>> University of Chinese Academy of Sciences<br/>> TGRS 2017 | The paper constructs a remote sensing image captioning dataset (RSICD) and evaluates different caption methods based on handcrafted representations and convolutional features on different datasets. | 278 | None |
| `Fully convolutional networks` | [Can a Machine Generate Humanlike Language?](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7891049)<br/>*Zhenwei Shi; Zhengxia Zou*<br/>> Beihang University<br/>> TGRS 2017 | The paper investigates an interesting question of can a machine automatically generate humanlike language description of remote sensing image and proposes a remote sensing image captioning framwork, where the experimental results on Google Earth and GF-2 images have demonstrated the superiority and transfer ability of the proposed method. | 134 | None |
| `HSR image` | [Deep semantic understanding of high resolution remote sensing image](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7546397)<br/>*Bo Qu; Xuelong Li; Dacheng Tao; Xiaoqiang Lu*<br/>> University of the Chinese Academy of Sciences<br/>> CITS 2016 | This paper proposes a deep multimodal neural network model to solve the problem of understanding HSR remote sensing images in the semantic level and the VGG19-layers network with LSTMs is the best combination for HSR remote sensing image caption generation. | 136 | None |

### Datasets
| Dataset info | Language | Categories | Total | Resolution |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| [NWPU-Captions](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9866055/keywords)<br/>The NWPU-Captions dataset is a larger and more challenging benchmark dataset for remote sensing image captioning, containing 157,500 manually annotated sentences and 31,500 images, offering a greater data volume, category variety, description richness, and wider coverage of complex scenes and vocabulary.<br/>> School of Electronic Information and Communications, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China<br/>> 2022 | English  | 45 | 31500 | 30 m - <br/>0.2 m  |
| [LEVIR-CC](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9934924/keywords#full-text-header)<br/>The LEVIR-CC dataset is a large-scale dataset designed for the RSICC task, consisting of 10077 pairs of RS images and 50385 corresponding sentences describing image differences.<br/>> Beijing Key Laboratory of Digital Media, Beihang University, Beijing, China<br/>> 2022 | English  | 10 | 10077 | 0.5 m - <br/>0.5 m |
### Popular Implementations
| Code | Framework |
|---|---|

### Blogs
| Title | Author | Overview |
|---|---|---|

Commit message:

add: dataset(RSICD, UCM captions, Sydney captions)

README.md, after:

# awesome-remote-image-captioning
The project is currently under construction

### Templates
```markdown
Papers
| `标签` | [论文名称](论文地址) <br/>*所有作者*<br/>> 单位<br/>> 所属期刊缩写 年份 | 一句话概括 |引用数 | [[Code]](仓库地址)<br/>[[Page]](主页地址)<br/>[[Demo]](Demo地址) |

Datasets
| [数据集名称](论文地址) <br/>一句话概括<br/>> 单位<br/>> 年份 | 语言 | 图像类别数 | 图像总个数 | 最低图像分辨率 - <br/>最高图像分辨率 |

Popular Implementations
| [仓库名称](仓库地址) | 框架 |

Blogs
| [Blog标题](Blog地址) | 作者 | 一句话概括 |
```

### Papers
| Tag | Paper info | Description | Citations | Useful links |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `Contextual attention`, `NWPU-Captions`| [NWPU-Captions Dataset and MLCA-Net for Remote Sensing Image Captioning](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9866055/keywords)<br/>*Qimin Cheng; Haiyan Huang; Yuan Xu; Yuzhuo Zhou; Huanying Li; Zhongyuan Wang*<br/>> Huazhong University of Science and Technology<br/>> TGRS 2022 | The paper propose a novel encoder–decoder architecture — multilevel and contextual attention network (MLCA-Net), which improves the flexibility and diversity of the generated captions while keeping their accuracy and conciseness.<br/> | 4 | None |
| `Change captioning (CC)`, `change detection (CD)`, `Transformer` | [Remote Sensing Image Change Captioning With Dual-Branch Transformers: A New Method and a Large Scale Dataset](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9934924/keywords#full-text-header)<br/>*Chenyang Liu; Rui Zhao; Hao Chen; Zhengxia Zou; Zhenwei Shi*<br/>> Beihang University<br/>> TGRS 2022 | The paper proposes a novel Transformer-based RSICC (RSICCformer) model, which consists of a CNN-based feature extractor, a dual-branch Transformer encoder (DTE) and a caption decoder.<br/> | 3 | None |
| `joint training`, `multilabel attributes` | [A Joint-Training Two-Stage Method For Remote Sensing Image Captioning](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9961235/keywords#full-text-header) <br/>*Xiutiao Ye; Shuang Wang; Yu Gu; Jihui Wang; Ruixuan Wang; Biao Hou; Fausto Giunchiglia; Licheng Jiao*<br/>> Xidian University<br/>> TGRS 2022 | A novel joint-training two-stage (JTTS) method improves remote sensing image captioning by integrating multilabel classification for prior information, utilizing differentiable sampling, and employing an attribute-guided decoder.<br/> | 2 | None |
| `Attention mechanism` | [Global Visual Feature and Linguistic State Guided Attention for Remote Sensing Image Captioning](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9632558/) <br/>*Zhengyuan Zhang;Wenkai Zhang;Menglong Yan;Xin Gao;Kun Fu;Xian Sun*<br/>> Chinese Academy of Sciences<br/>> TGRS 2022 | This article proposes a global visual feature-guided attention mechanism for remote-sensing image captioning, which introduces global visual features, filters out redundant components.<br/> | 9 | None |
| `change detection (CD)`, `support vector machines (SVMs)` | [Change Captioning: A New Paradigm for Multitemporal Remote Sensing Image Analysis](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9847254) <br/>*Genc Hoxha;Seloua Chouaf;Farid Melgani;Youcef Smara*<br/>> University of Trento<br/>> TGRS 2022 | This article proposes change captioning systems that generate coherent sentence descriptions of occurred changes in remote sensing, which utilize convolutional neural networks to extract features and recurrent neural networks or support vector machines to generate change descriptions.<br/> | 3 | None |
| `Attention mechanism`, `encoder-decoder` | [Recurrent Attention and Semantic Gate for Remote Sensing Image Captioning](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9515452) <br/>*Yunpeng Li;Xiangrong Zhang;Jing Gu;Chen Li;Xin Wang;Xu Tang;Licheng Jiao*<br/>> Xidian University<br/>> TGRS 2022 | This article introduces a novel RASG framework for remote sensing image captioning, and it utilizes competitive visual features and a recurrent attention mechanism to generate improved context vectors and enhance word representations.<br/> | 14 | None |
| `structured attention` | [High-Resolution Remote Sensing Image Captioning Based on Structured Attention](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9400386/keywords#keywords) <br/>*Rui Zhao;Zhenwei Shi;Zhengxia Zou*<br/>> Beihang University, Beijing<br/>> TGRS 2022 | A fine-grained, structured attention-based method is proposed for generating language descriptions of high-resolution remote sensing images, utilizes the structural characteristics of semantic contents and can generate pixelwise segmentation masks without requiring pixelwise annotations.<br/> | 35 | None |
| `support vector machines (SVMs)` | [A Novel SVM-Based Decoder for Remote Sensing Image Captioning](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9521989/) <br/>*Genc Hoxha;Farid Melgani*<br/>> University of Trento<br/>> TGRS 2022 | This article introduces a novel remote sensing image captioning system by using a network of support vector machines (SVMs) instead of recurrent neural networks (RNNs).<br/> | 20 | None |
| `Meta learning` | [Meta captioning: A meta learning based remote sensing image captioning framework](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0924271622000351) <br/>*Qiaoqiao;YangZihao;NiPeng Ren*<br/>> China University of Petroleum (East China)<br/>> ISPRS 2022 | The paper presents a meta captioning framework that utilizes meta learning to address the limitations of remote sensing image captioning, transferring meta features extracted from natural image classification and remote sensing image classification tasks to improve captioning performance with a relatively small amount of caption-labeled training data.| 8 | [[Code]](https://github.com/QiaoqiaoYang/MetaCaptioning) |
| `Spatial and channel-wise visual attention`, `Transformer`, `Memory guided decoder` | [Generating the captions for remote sensing images: A spatial-channel attention based memory-guided transformer approach](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0952197622002317) <br/>*Gaurav O. Gajbhiye;Abhijeet V. Nandedkar*<br/>> SGGS Institute of Engineering and Technology<br/>> ISPRS 2022 | A novel fully-attentive CNN-Transformer approach is proposed for automatic caption generation in remote sensing images, integrating a multi-attentive visual encoder and a memory-guided Transformer-based linguistic decoder, with a statistical index to measure the model's ability to generate reliable captions across datasets. | 4 | [[Code]](https://github.com/GauravGajbhiye/SCAMET_RSIC) |
| `overfitting`, `truncation cross entropy (TCE) loss` | [Truncation Cross Entropy Loss for Remote Sensing Image Captioning](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9153154/keywords#keywords) <br/>*Xuelong Li;Xueting Zhang;Wei Huang;Qi Wang*<br/>> Northwestern Polytechnical University<br/>> TGRS 2021 | This article introduces a new approach called truncation cross entropy (TCE) loss to address the overfitting problem in remote sensing image captioning (RSIC), which explores the limitations of cross entropy (CE) loss and proposes TCE loss to alleviate overfitting.<br/> | 38 | None |
| `Caption summarization` | [SD-RSIC: Summarization-Driven Deep Remote Sensing Image Captioning](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9239371) <br/>*Gencer Sumbul;Sonali Nayak;Begüm Demir*<br/>> Technische Universität Berlin<br/>> TGRS 2021 | The novel SD-RSIC approach addresses the issue of redundant information in remote sensing image captioning, which utilizes summarization techniques, adaptive weighting, and a combination of CNNs and LSTM networks to improve the mapping from the image domain to the language domain.<br/> | 35 | [[Code]](https://gitlab.tubit.tu-berlin.de/rsim/SD-RSIC) |
| `word–sentence framework` | [Word–Sentence Framework for Remote Sensing Image Captioning](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9308980/keywords#keywords) <br/>*Qi Wang;Wei Huang;Xueting Zhang;Xuelong Li*<br/>> Northwestern Polytechnical University<br/>> TRGS 2021 | This article introduces a new explainable word-sentence framework for remote sensing image captioning (RSIC), consisting of a word extractor and a sentence generator.<br/> | 42 | None |
| `Multi-label classification`, `Cross-modal feature fusion` | [Multi-label semantic feature fusion for remote sensing image captioning](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S092427162100318X) <br/>*Shuang Wang;Xiutiao Ye;Yu Gu;Jihui Wang;Yun Meng;Jingxian Tian;Biao Hou;Licheng Jiao*<br/>> Xidian University<br/>> ISPRS 2021 | The paper introduces a multi-label semantic feature fusion (MLSFF) framework for two-stage remote sensing image (RSI) captioning, which utilizes multi-label classification to improve the description of complex RSIs and proposes cross-modal fusion operators to enhance feature representations, achieving state-of-the-art performance on multiple datasets.| 6 | [[Code]](https://github.com/xtye5025/MLSFF) |
| `Multi-level attention`, `Graph convolutional networks` | [Exploring Multi-Level Attention and Semantic Relationship for Remote Sensing Image Captioning](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8943170)<br/>*Zhenghang Yuan; Xuelong Li; Qi Wang*<br/>> Northwestern Polytechnical University<br/>> IEEE Access 2019 | This paper proposes a remote sensing image captioning framework based on multi-level attention and multi-label attribute graph convolution is proposed to improve the performance from two aspects. | 29 | None |
| `Intensive positioning network (IPN)` | [Intensive Positioning Network for Remote Sensing Image Captioning](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-02698-1_49)<br/>*Shengsheng Wang; Jiawei Chen; Guagnyao Wang*<br/>> Jilin University<br/>> Intelligence Science and Big Data Engineering 2018 | The paper proposes a new network: intensive positioning network (IPN) , which can predict regions containing important information in the picture and output multiple region description blocks around these regions. | 6 | None | 
| `RSICD` | [Exploring Models and Data for Remote Sensing Image Caption Generation ](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8240966)<br/>*Xiaoqiang Lu; Binqiang Wang; Xiangtao Zheng; Xuelong Li*<br/>> University of Chinese Academy of Sciences<br/>> TGRS 2017 | The paper constructs a remote sensing image captioning dataset (RSICD) and evaluates different caption methods based on handcrafted representations and convolutional features on different datasets. | 278 | None |
| `Fully convolutional networks` | [Can a Machine Generate Humanlike Language?](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7891049)<br/>*Zhenwei Shi; Zhengxia Zou*<br/>> Beihang University<br/>> TGRS 2017 | The paper investigates an interesting question of can a machine automatically generate humanlike language description of remote sensing image and proposes a remote sensing image captioning framwork, where the experimental results on Google Earth and GF-2 images have demonstrated the superiority and transfer ability of the proposed method. | 134 | None |
| `HSR image` | [Deep semantic understanding of high resolution remote sensing image](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7546397)<br/>*Bo Qu; Xuelong Li; Dacheng Tao; Xiaoqiang Lu*<br/>> University of the Chinese Academy of Sciences<br/>> CITS 2016 | This paper proposes a deep multimodal neural network model to solve the problem of understanding HSR remote sensing images in the semantic level and the VGG19-layers network with LSTMs is the best combination for HSR remote sensing image caption generation. | 136 | None |

### Datasets
| Dataset info | Language | Categories | Total | Resolution |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| [NWPU-Captions](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9866055/keywords)<br/>The NWPU-Captions dataset is a larger and more challenging benchmark dataset for remote sensing image captioning, containing 157,500 manually annotated sentences and 31,500 images, offering a greater data volume, category variety, description richness, and wider coverage of complex scenes and vocabulary.<br/>> School of Electronic Information and Communications, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China<br/>> 2022 | English  | 45 | 31500 | 30 m - <br/>0.2 m  |
| [LEVIR-CC](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9934924/keywords#full-text-header)<br/>The LEVIR-CC dataset is a large-scale dataset designed for the RSICC task, consisting of 10077 pairs of RS images and 50385 corresponding sentences describing image differences.<br/>> Beijing Key Laboratory of Digital Media, Beihang University, Beijing, China<br/>> 2022 | English  | 10 | 10077 | 0.5 m - <br/>0.5 m |
| [RSICD](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8240966)<br/>It contains more than ten thousands remote sensing images which are collected from Google Earth, Baidu Map, MapABC and Tianditu.<br/>>University of Chinese Academy of Sciences<br/>>2018 | English | 30 | 10921 | None |
| [Sydney captions](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7546397)<br/>It contains 7 different scene categories and totally has 613 HSR images.<br/>>University of the Chinese Academy of Sciences<br/>>2016 | English | 7 | 613 | 0.5m |
| [UCM captions](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7546397)<br/>It is based on the UC Merced Land Use Dataset and has  2100 HSR images which are divided into 21 challenging scene categories.<br/>>University of the Chinese Academy of Sciences<br/>>2016 | English | 21 | 2100 | 0.3048m |
### Popular Implementations
| Code | Framework |
|---|---|

### Blogs
| Title | Author | Overview |
|---|---|---|
